# It's a chopper, baby

## Video Demo <https://youtu.be/76kdZSBQeKg>

### "It's a chopper, baby!" is a game similar to "flappy bird". The idea of the title came from my dad, a "Pulp Fiction" fan, as I showed him this project. I had chosen my game character to be a helicopter but I didn't have a title yet. So he told me: "Son, why don't you choose the speech of a character in pulp fiction?". Since my game character was a helicopter and "chopper" is also a name for "helicopter" I thought it made sense to choose "It's A Chopper Baby" as my project name. "It's a chopper, baby!" has two game states: The 'start' and 'play' game state. When you run the game, you'll be presented with a menu. That's the 'start' game state.There you can see the game's title. Below the title, you'll notice there is a text explaining two commands: "Press 'enter' to start the game" and "Press 'space' to jump". After pressing enter, you'll notice that the game starts. That's when you'll be rendered to 'play'. Whenever you collide with a pipe or any of the window's edges, the game state will return to 'start'. In the 'play' game state, the helicopter will start to go down (because of the game gravity). To go up, you press 'space'. After pressing 'space', the helicopter will slighty go up and then start to go down again. All you have to do is control this without letting the helicopter collide with the pipes or the window's edges. Why did choose a helicopter? I just think it was a good idea to choose a helicopter over a plane. Since a plane is a lying rectangle, its width is way greater than its height. It's more difficult to dodge the pipes, because whenever the plane is flying between two pipes, it easier to collide than a helicopter. When the plane goes down and you are surpassing two pipes, its tail could touch the pipes. The width and height of an helicopter are more equal than of a plane. It doesn't make the game so much easier though, it's still difficult to fly with an helicopter. What about the game's rules? The rules of the game are simple. You press 'enter' to start the game and 'space' to jump. The challenge is to dodge the pipes as you keep moving forward. The goal is to reach the highest score possible. The score is shown on the top left of the game window. I also added three sounds to the game. First, I added the jump sound for the helicopter. Then I added another one for scoring a point. Whenever you fly between two pipes without touching any of them, you'll hear the second sound. That means you scored a point. The last sound I implemented was for collision. If you collide with a window's edge or a pipe, you'll hear the third sound
